# Axioms

I decided to use an extended set of euclidean axioms, mainly because proving
everything from the basic set is boring.

1. There exists only a single line that passes through two different points.
2. Every segment $\overline{AB}$ has an assigned **length**, which is a positive
   real number such that $|AB| \geqslant 0 \land |AB| = 0 \iff A = B$.
3. If $h_{OP}$ is any ray, $r$ is any non-negative real number, then there exists
   a single point $A$ such that $|OA| = r$.
4. Every angle $\sphericalangle \alpha$ has an assigned **measure**, which is a
   non-negative real number $|\sphericalangle \alpha| \in [0; 2\pi]$ such that:
    1. zero angle and only it has measure equal $0$
    2. half of a full angle and only it has measure equal $\pi$.
    3. if point $C$ is on the inside of angle $\sphericalangle AOB$.
      then $|\sphericalangle AOB| = |\sphericalangle AOC| + |\sphericalangle COB|$.
    4. if number $a$ satisfies the inequality $0 < a < |\sphericalangle AOB|$,
       then there exists precisely one ray $h_{OC}$ such that $C$ is on the inside
       of $\sphericalangle AOB$ and $|\sphericalangle AOC| = a$.
5. Angles of measure no bigger than $\pi$ are convex shapes.
6. For every line $k$ and every point $P$, there exists a single line $l$ such
   that $P \in l$ and $k \parallel l$.
7. For every line $k$ and every point $P$, there exists a single line $l$ such
   that $P \in l$ and $k \perp l$.
8. If $l \parallel k$ and $l \perp m$, then $k \perp m$.
9. If $P, R \in m$ and $k \parallel m$, then $|Pk| = |Rk|$.
10. (***Property of triangle congruence by SAS***) If for triangles: $\triangle ABC$
    and $\triangle A'B'C'$ the following holds:
    $$
    |AB| = |A'B'| \land |\sphericalangle B| = |\sphericalangle B'| \land |BC| = |B'C'|
    $$
    then $\triangle ABC \equiv \triangle A'B'C'$.
11. Let's assume that $A$ is an inside point, and $B$ is an outside point of a certain
    shape. Then segment $\overline{AB}$ has a common point with the edge of that
    shape. Also, every of two arches of any circle that goes through points $A$
    and $B$ has a common point with the edge of that shape.
